# CONSOLE PASSWORD MANAGER
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/EnBLsZtlBIg?si=OtLUdQ3zt00aClzi
### Description:
The Console Password Manager is a programme which allows you to store your passwords safely in one place. The programme stores the data in a local database powered by Python built-in SQLite engine and encrypts your passwords using [Fernet](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/fernet/) tool.

### Installation of required packages
To install the packages required for work, run the following command in your console:

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Programme functions

The programme lets you to create an entry, change its password or delete it. Also it can show you the password of an entry or view every entry you have.

To start working, make sure you're in the same directory as the 'project.py' file, and enter the following command:
```python
python project.py
```

You can select from five options by entering its number in the console:
1. Create a new account
2. Change the password for already existing account
3. Fetch a decrypted password for the existing account
4. Delete an existing account
5. Show all the accounts you've entered

As user creates the first entry, a local database file and a decryptor key file appear in the project folder. The database consists of:
- Entry sequence number
- Account website (string)
- Account e-mail (string)
- Encrypted password (raw binary)

The password, either entered manually or generated by the programme, is shown only when the entry is fetched. If the whole database is shown, passwords stay encrypted.

#### Creating an account

- To create an account, select the option 1.
- Enter the website you're creating an account for. You can enter the website in any format you want. Using Python built-in [urllib.parse](https://docs.python.org/3/library/urllib.parse.html) library, the programme strips the entered URL and saves only Network location part into the database.
    - If the URL you've entered is invalid, the programme will ask you to enter a valid URL.
    - Examples of valid URLs:
        - example.org
        - https://example.org/
        - https://example.org/3/contents.html
- Enter the e-mail associated with the account.
    - If the e-mail you've entered is invalid, the programme will ask you to enter a valid e-mail.
- Generate or enter your password:
    - By selecting option 1, the programme will generate a random password from the pool of lowercase and uppercase letters, numbers and special symbols.
    - By selecting option 2, the programme will ask you to enter your password. Please note that the programme will not validate the password which:
        - Less than 8 characters long
        - Doesn't have at least one lowercase letter
        - Doesn't have at least one uppercase letter
        - Doesn't have at least one number
        - Doesn't have at least one special symbol

If there is already an account you're trying to enter in the database, the programme will show a warning message:
```python
An account for your_email already exists on your_website.
```

#### Changing account's password

- To make changes, select the option 2.
- Enter the entry's website.
- Enter the e-mail associated with the account.
- Generate or enter your password.

#### Fetching account's details

- To fetch details, select the option 3.
- Enter the website you want to fetch.

The programme will show all the entries associated with the website with decrypted passwords.

#### Deleting an account

- To delete an entry, select the option 4.
- Enter the entry's website.
- Enter the e-mail associated with the account.

If the entry was deleted, the programme will show the message:

```python
The record for your_email has been deleted successfully.
```

#### Displaying the database

- To show the whole database, select the option 5.

This action will show all the entries in the database with encrypted passwords.

## Easter egg!

There is an Easter egg in the programme. Try entering 'bull' instead of an option and see what the programme does!
